# best viewed via "perldoc TODO.pod"

=pod

=for stopwords API LHS RHS REFACTORINGS FH SVN stopwords

=head1 NAME

Perl::Critic::TODO - Things for Perl::Critic developers to do

=head1 SOURCE

         $URL$
        $Date$
      $Author$
    $Revision$


=head1 SEE ALSO

Perl-Critic-More is a separate distribution for less-widely-accepted
policies.  It contains its own TODO.pod.


=head1 NEW FEATURES

=over

=item * Report PBP and Safari sections in addition to PBP page numbers.

Something like

    Readonly::Scalar my $EXPL => {
        pbp_pages       => [ 57 ],
        pbp_section     => '5.2',
        safari_section  => something,
    };

=item * Include PBP references and Safari sections in the documentation.

Perhaps these could be injected into the POD at build time, based on the data
in the code.  But that data is not entirely static, so I'm not sure how it
would work for Policies that dynamically determine the PBP references.

Perhaps it would be good enough to just create a one-off tool that would
inject the PBP and/or Safari references into the POD one time, and we could
manually deal with Policies that behave oddly.

Much better would be to put the information in the POD in a structured manner
and parse it out in the code, something along the lines of

    =head1 METADATA

    =over

    =item Default Themes

    core bugs pbp

    =item Default Severity

    3

    =item Perl Best Practices Page Numbers

    193, 195

    =back

and so on.


=item * Add a file Parameter::Behavior.


=item * Allow values of (at least) string-list Parameters to be specified in a file.

For the benefit of PodSpelling, etc.


=item * Enhance string-list Behavior to allow specification of delimiters.

For things like RequirePodSections.


=item * Add queries to --list option to F<perlcritic>.

List Policies based upon severity, theme, and (what I want this second)
applies_to.

=item * Add formatting of --list output.

Support Jeff Bisbee's use case (he dumps all the policies in severity order
with full descriptions and other metadata).

=item * Support for C<#line 123 "filename"> directives.

For code generators and template languages that allow inline Perl code.

Yes, somebody has an in-house templating system where they've written a custom
test module that extracts the perl code from a template and critiques it.

Actually, this would be useful for programs: Module::Build "fixes" shebang
lines so that there's the bit about invoking perl if the program is attempted
to be run by a Bourne shell, which throws the line numbers off when using
Test::P::C on the contents of a C<blib> directory.

This has been implemented in PPI, but hasn't been released yet.  When it does
come out, we need to change the line and file reported by Violations.


=item * Enhance statistics.

- Blank line count

- POD line count

- Comment line count

- Data section count

Proposed implementation committed 15-Mar-2007 by wyant, about revision 3240.


=item * Detect 5.10 source and enable stuff for that.

For example, treat C<say> as equivalent to C<print>.

=item * Detect 5.12 source and enable stuff for that.

Yes, this is long-term, and is really a list of stuff from 5.011 to enable if
it makes it into 5.12, gleaned from the perl511xdelta files:

'use 5.011;' implies 'use strict;' and 'use feature qw{ :5.11 };' per
perl5110delta.

'sub foo { ... }' (yes, with the subroutine body being an elipsis a.k.a. the
'yada yada' operator) compiles but fails at runtime per perl5110delta. PPI
seems to parse this sanely as of 1.206.

'package Foo 1.23;' is equivalent to 'package Foo; our $VERSION = 1.23;' per
perl5111delta. PPI seems to parse this sanely as of 1.206.

Nothing additional found in perl5112delta, which is the most recent as of the
addition of this item.

=item * Detect 5.14 source and enable stuff for that.

5.13.7 allows references in many places where arrays or hashes used to
be required (e.g. C<push $stack, 'foo'> where C<$stack> is an array
ref). Not sure what policies are affected.

Lexical regular expression modifier defaults via (e.g.)
C<use re '/smx'>). This also interacts with
C<use feature 'unicode_strings'>. 5.13.7.

=item * Support a means of failing if a Policy isn't installed.

For example, the self compliance test now depends upon a Policy in the More
distribution.

Something like using a "+" sign in front of the Policy name in its
configuration block, analogous to the "-" sign used for disabling a policy,
e.g. "C<[+Example::Policy]>".


=item * Threading

Pretty obviously, Perl::Critic is readily parallelizable, just do a document per
thread.  ("readily" being conceptual, not necessarily practical)  Although
there's now C<Policy::prepare_to_scan_document()>, given perl's thread data
sharing model, this shouldn't be an issue.


=item * Add support in .run files for regexes for violation descriptions.

=item * Add support for "## use critic (blah)".

If I've got:

    ## no critic (SomePolicy)

    ...

    ## no critic (ADifferentPolicy)

    ...

    ## no critic (YetAnotherPolicy)

If I want to turn C<YetAnotherPolicy> back on but neither C<SomePolicy> nor
C<ADifferentPolicy>, I've got to do this:

    ## use critic
    ## no critic (SomePolicy, ADifferentPolicy)

Why can't I do this:

    ## use critic (SomeOtherPolicy)


=item * Make color work on Windows.

Use L<Win32::Console::ANSI> like L<App::Ack>.


=item * Create P::C::Node and make P::C::Document a subclass and make use of PPIx::Utilities::Node::split_ppi_node_by_namespace() to provide per-namespace caching of lookups that are now on P::C::Document.

This is necessary to get P::C::Moose Policies correct.


=item * Use L<version|version> to declare C<$VERSION> numbers throughout P::C

PBP recommends using the L<version|version> module.  I chose not to follow that
recommendation because L<version|version> didn't work with the Perl v5.6.1 that I had
at $work at that time (and I really wanted to use Perl::Critic at work).
But now the L<version|version> has been updated and those bugs may have been fixed,
or perhaps we just don't care about running on Perl v5.6.1 any more.  So
maybe now we can go ahead and use L<version|version>.

=back


=head1 BUGS/LIMITATIONS

Document bugs for individual Policies in the Policies themselves.  Users
should be aware of limitations.  (And, hey, we might get patches that way.)


=head1 OTHER PBP POLICIES THAT SEEM FEASIBLE TO IMPLEMENT

=over

=item * Modules::RequireUseVersion [405-406]

=item * Modules::RequireThreePartVersion [405-406]


=item * NamingConventions::RequireArrayAndHashReferenceVariablesEndWith_Ref [41-42]

Check for C<$variable = [...]>, C<$variable = {...}>, C<< $variable->[...] >>, and
C<< $variable->{...} >>.


=item * Objects::ProhibitRestrictedHashes [322-323]

Look for use of the bad methods in Hash::Util.


=item * Objects::ProhibitLValueAccessors [346-349]

Look for the C<:lvalue> subroutine attribute.


=back


=head1 NON-PBP POLICIES WANTED

=over

=item * Subroutines::RequireArgumentValidation

Enforce the use of Params::Validate or Params::Util or some other
argument validation mechanism.  This could be one Policy that
can be configured for different validation mechanisms, or we could
have a separate Policy for each mechanism, and let the user choose
which one they want to use (I think I prefer the later).


=item * NamingConventions::ProhibitMisspelledSymbolNames

The idea behind this policy is to encourage better names for variables
and subroutines by enforcing correct spelling and prohibiting the use of
home-grown abbreviations.  Assuming that the author uses underscores or
camel-case, it should be possible to split symbols into words, and then look
them up in a dictionary (see PodSpelling).  This policy should probably have
a similar stopwords feature as well.


=item * Documentation::RequireModuleAbstract

Require a C<=head1 NAME> POD section with content that matches
C<\A \s* [\w:]+ \s+ - \s+ \S>.  The single hyphen is the important bit.  Also,
must be a single line.


=item * Expressions::RequireFatCommasInHashConstructors

=item * ErrorHandling::RequireLocalizingGlobalErrorVariablesInDESTROY

Prevent C<$.>, C<$@>, C<$!>, C<$^E>, and C<$?> from being cleared unexpectedly
by DESTROY methods.

    package Foo;

    sub DESTROY {
        die "Died in Foo::DESTROY()";
    }

    package main;

    eval {
        my $foo = Foo->new();

        die "Died in eval."
    }
    print $@;   # "Died in Foo::DESTROY()", not "Died in eval.".

See L<http://use.perl.org/~Ovid/journal/36767> and
L<http://www.xray.mpe.mpg.de/mailing-lists/perl5-porters/2008-06/msg00542.html>.


=item * Expressions::ProhibitDecimalWithBitwiseOperator

=item * Expressions::ProhibitStringsWithBitwiseOperator


=item * InputOutput::ProhibitMagicDiamond

Steal the idea from L<B::Lint|B::Lint>.


=item * NamingConventions::RequireArrayAndHashReferenceVariablesEndWith_Ref


=item * Programs::RequireShebang

Anything that is a program should have a shebang line.  This includes .t
files.


=item * Modules::RequirePackageDeclarationAsFirstStatementInModule

See L<http://blog.woobling.org/2009/11/scoping-of-current-package.html>.
Ouch.


=item * BuiltInFunctions::RequireConstantSprintfFormat


=item * BuiltInFunctions::RequireConstantUnpackFormat

L<http://diotalevi.isa-geek.net/~josh/yapc-lint/slides/slide5.html>


=item * Miscellanea::ProhibitObnoxiousComments

Forbid excessive hash marks e.g. "#### This is a loud comment ####".
Make the obnoxious pattern configurable


=item * ValuesAndExpressions::RequireNotOperator

Require the use of "not" instead of "!", except when this would contradict
ProhibitMixedBooleanOperators.  This may be better suited for
Perl::Critic::More.


=item * ValuesAndExpressions::ProhibitUnusedReadonlyConstants

We'll only be able to look at lexicals.  For similar reasons, we can't do
anything about L<constant>.


=item * Modules::RequireExplicitImporting

Require every C<use> statement to have an explicit import list.  You could
still get around this by calling C<import> directly.


=item * Modules::ForbidImporting

Require every C<use> to have an explicitly empty import list.  This is for
folks who like to see fully-qualified function names.  Should probably provide
a list of exempt modules (like FindBin);


=item * ControlStructures::ProhibitIncludeViaDo

Forbid C<do "foo.pl">.  Not sure about this policy name.


=item * Variables::ProhibitUseVars

Disallow C<use vars qw(...)> and require C<our $foo> instead.  This
contradicts Miscellanea::Prohibit5006isms.  Maybe verify C<use 5.6> before
applying this policy.  Low severity.


=item * VariablesAndExpressions::ProhibitQuotedHashKeys

Forbid quotes around hash keys, unless they are really needed.  This is
against what Damian says.  Suggested by Adam Kennedy.  Low severity.


=item * CodeLayout::ProhibitFunctionalNew

Good: C<< Foo::Bar->new >>, Bad: C<< new Foo::Bar >>


=item * RegularExpressions::ProhibitSWSWSW

Require C<split> instead of C<m/\s*\w*\s*\w*\s*/>.  From MJD's Red Flags.


=item * Documentation::RequireSynopsis


=item * Documentation::RequireLicense

These are simplified versions of Documentation::RequirePodSections.


=item * Documentation::RequireValidSynopsis

The Synopsis section must be all indented and must be syntactically valid Perl
(as validated by PPI).


=item * Documentation::ProhibitEmptySections

Any C<=headN> and C<=over> sections must not be empty.  This helps catch
boilerplate (although Test::Pod should catch empty C<=over> blocks).

On the other hand, C<=item ...> sections can be empty, since the item label is
content.


=item * Miscellaneous::ProhibitBoilerplate

Complain about copy-and-paste code or docs from h2xs, Module::Starter::*, etc.

Here's a non-PPI implementation:
L<http://search.cpan.org/src/JJORE/Carp-Clan-5.8/t/04boilerplate.t>


=item * NamingConventions::ProhibitPackagesSubroutinesAndBarewordFileHandlesWithTheSameNames

See
L<http://www.xray.mpe.mpg.de/mailing-lists/perl5-porters/2009-01/msg00685.html>.


=item * BuiltinFunctions::ProhibitExtraneousScalarCall

Recommend that C<if (scalar @array)> be rewritten as C<if (@array)>.


=item * RegularExpressions::ProhibitMixedDelimiters

Ban s{foo}(bar)


=item * RegularExpressions::ProhibitScalarAsRegexp

Ban naked strings as regexps, like:

    print 1 if $str =~ $regexp;

Instead, it should be:

    print 1 if $str =~ m/$regexp/;

or

    print 1 if $str =~ m/$regexp/xms;


=item * ValuesAndExpressions::RequireInterpolatedStringyEval

Ensure that the argument to a stringy eval is not a constant string.  That's
just wasteful.  Real world examples include:

  eval 'use Optional::Module';

which is better written as

  eval { require Optional::Module; Optional::Module->import };

for performance gains and compile-time syntax checking.

Question: This is very similar to BuiltInFunctions::ProhibitStringyEval. What
does the new policy buy us? Could we get the same thing with an option on the
latter to forbid un-interpolated includes even if C<allow_includes> is turned
on?


=item * RegularExpressions::ProhibitUnnecessaryEscapes

Complain if user puts a backslash escape in front of non-special characters.
For example:

   m/\!/;

Make exceptions for C<\">, C<\'> and C<\`> since those are often inserted to
workaround bugs in syntax highlighting.

Note that this is different inside character classes, where only C<^>, C<]>
and C<-> need to be escaped, I think.  Caret only needs to be escaped at the
beginning, and dash does NOT need to be escaped at the beginning and end.  See
L<perlreref|perlreref>.


=item * Steal ideas from L<Dunce::Files|Dunce::Files>.

Can someone expand this entry, please?

=item * ControlStructures::ProhibitAssigmentInConditional

=item * ValuesAndExpressions::RequireConstantBeforeEquals

=item * ValuesAndExpressions::RequireConstantBeforeOperator

L<http://use.perl.org/~stu42j/journal/36412>

Just about everyone has been bitten by C<if ($x = 10) { ... }> when they meant
to use C<==>.  A safer style is C<10 == $x> because omitting the second C<=>
yields a noisy compile-time failure instead of silent runtime error.

ProhibitAssigmentInConditional complains if the condition of a while, until,
if or unless is solely an assignment.  If it's anything more complex (like
C<if (($x=10)){}> or C<while ($x=$y=$z){}>), there is no warning.

RequireConstantBeforeEquals complains if the left side of an C<==> is a
variable while the right side is a constant.

RequireConstantBeforeOperator complains if the left side of any comparison
operator (C<==>, C<eq>, C<&lt;>, etc) is a variable while the right side is a
constant.


=item * InputOutput::ProhibitUTF8IOLayer

http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5/index.cgi?the_utf8_perlio_layer


=item * BuiltinFunctions::ProhibitExit(?:InModules)?

Forbid C<exit()> in files that lack a shebang.  Inspired by
L<http://use.perl.org/~Ovid/journal/36746> and an analogous checker in
FindBugs.


=item * Modules::ProhibitRedundantLoading

Don't allow a package to "use" the same module more than once, unless
there is a "no <module>" between them.

See https://rt.cpan.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=38074.


=item * ErrorHandling::RequireLocalizingEVAL_ERRORInDESTROY

The opposite side of ErrorHandling::RequireCheckingReturnValueOfEval.


=back


=head1 REFACTORINGS and ENHANCEMENTS

=over

=item * Reformat all the POD to use 78 columns instead of 70.

This thing of having different widths for the documentation and the code is
rediculous.  Don't do this until after the next non-dev release.  Elliot is
considering doing a special release only including this change so that the
search.cpan.org diff tool doesn't entirely break.


=item * Eliminate use of IO::String

I'm pretty sure that opening references to scalars is in 5.6, so IO::String
isn't necessary.


=item * Give L<Perl::Critic::Command> a proper API.

Now that we've got the guts of L<perlcritic> in there, we should make the
it available to users.


=item * Create constants for the PPI location array elements.

=item * Some means of detecting "runaway" C<##no critic>

Elliot was talking to a couple of users at ETech and one of their major
concerns was that they were using C<##no critic> and forgetting to do a
C<##use critic> after the problematic section.  Perhaps an option to
F<perlcritic> to scan for such things is in order.


=item * Change API to use named parameters

Most of the methods on the public classes use named parameters for passing
arguments.  I'd like to extend that pattern to include all object-methods.
Static methods can still use positional parameters.


=item * Enhance P::C::critique() to accept files, directories, or code strings

Just like F<bin/perlcritic> does now.


=item * Add C<-cache> flag to F<bin/perlcritic>

If enabled, this turns on L<PPI::Cache|PPI::Cache>:

    require PPI::Cache;
    my $cache_path = "/tmp/test-perl-critic-cache-$ENV{USER}";
    mkdir $cache_path, oct 700 if (! -d $cache_path);
    PPI::Cache->import(path => $cache_path);

This cache directory should perhaps include the PPI version number!  At least
until PPI incorporates its own version number in the cache.

(see F<t/40_criticize.t> for a more robust implementation)


=item * Use hash-lookup instead of C<List::MoreUtils::any> function.

In several places, Perl::Critic uses C<List::MoreUtils::any> to see if a
string is a member of a list.  Instead, I suggest using a named subroutine
that does a hash-lookup like this:

    my %logical_ops = hashify( qw( ! || && ||= &&= and or not ) );
    sub is_logical_op { return exists $logical_ops{ $_[0] }; }

Question: Why?

Answer: Readability, mostly.  Performance, maybe.


=back

=head1 PPI BUGS

We're waiting on the following bugs to get fixed in a CPAN release of PPI:


=over

=item PPI::Token::descendant_of()

Exists in svn.  Replace _descendant_of() in RequireCheckingReturnValueOfEval
with that, once it is released, because it's faster and native.


=item Newlines

PPI does not preserve newlines.  That makes
CodeLayout::RequireConsistentNewlines impossible to implement under PPI.  For
now, it's implemented by pulling the source out of the file and skipping PPI.

It's unlikely that PPI will support mixed newlines anytime soon.


=item Operators

ValuesAndExpressions::ProhibitMismatchedOperators has two workarounds for PPI
bugs with parsing operators.  Many of these bugs have been fixed in PPI, so it
would be good to check if those workarounds are still needed.


=item Regexp methods

Not strictly a bug -- the PPI Regexp classes have a dearth of accessor methods
as of v1.118, meaning that we have to do messy digging into internals.  I
wrote Perl::Critic:Utils::PPIRegexp to encapsulate this messiness, but it
would be nicer to have an official interface in PPI.


=item QuoteLike::Words in the place of a ForLoop

PPI incorrectly parses C<<for qw<blah> {}>>.


=back

=cut

##############################################################################
# Local Variables:
#   mode: cperl
#   cperl-indent-level: 4
#   fill-column: 78
#   indent-tabs-mode: nil
#   c-indentation-style: bsd
# End:
# ex: set ts=8 sts=4 sw=4 tw=78 ft=pod expandtab shiftround :
