##############################################################################
#      $URL$
#     $Date$
#   $Author$
# $Revision$
##############################################################################

=head1 NAME

KomodoIntegration - Integrating perlcritic and Komodo.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the steps for integrating F<perlcritic> with Komodo 4.0
from ActiveState.  More information about Komodo can be found at
L<http://www.activestate.com>

B<UPDATE:> As of version 5.1.1, Komodo has built-in support for
L<Perl::Critic>.  All you need to do is install L<Perl::Critic> and
L<criticism>.  For more information, have a look at
L<http://trentm.com/blog/archives/2009/04/02/komodo511/>

These instructions assume that F<perlcritic> has been installed somewhere in
your C<$PATH>.  If it is not in your C<$PATH>, you must give the full path to
F<perlcritic> instead of using the C<-S> switch.  Also, I'm assuming that you
have installed Perl-Critic with the same Perl that Komodo is using.  If that
is not the case, you'll probably have to give a full path to F<perl> instead
of using the C<%perl> placeholder.

=over

=item * Start Komodo.

=item * Select C<< Toolbox -> Add -> New Command... >> from the menu.

=item * Enter a name for the command (e.g. "perlcritic").

=item * In the C<Command:> field, enter the following:

  %perl -S perlcritic --severity=%(ask:Severity level [1-5]?:5) --verbose=1 %F

=item * Uncheck the C<Insert output> and C<Pass selection as input> boxes.

=item * In the C<Run in:> drop-down list, select C<Command Output Tab>.

=item * Uncheck the C<Do not open output pane> box.

=item * Check the C<Parse output with:> box, and type this into the field:

  ^(?P<file>.+):(?P<line>.+):(?P<column>.+):(?P<content>.+)$

=item * Check the C<Show parsed output as a list> box.

=item * Click the C<Key Binding> tab.

=item * Click the C<New Key Sequence> text field, and press C<Ctrl-Alt-p>.

=item * Click the C<Add> button.

=item * Click the C<OK> button.

=back

Now to run F<perlcritic> on the current file, just press C<Ctrl-Alt-p>, or
select C<perlcritic> from the C<Toolbox> menu.  Each time, you will be
prompted to enter the minimum severity level (defaulting to 5).  After a few
moments, the output will appear in the C<Command Output> pane.  By
double-clicking on the output messages, you can navigate to the appropriate
point in the code.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeffrey Ryan Thalhammer <thaljef@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005-2009 Imaginative Software Systems.  All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.  The full text of this license can be found in
the LICENSE file included with this module.

=cut

##############################################################################
# Local Variables:
#   mode: cperl
#   cperl-indent-level: 4
#   fill-column: 78
#   indent-tabs-mode: nil
#   c-indentation-style: bsd
# End:
# ex: set ts=8 sts=4 sw=4 tw=78 ft=perl expandtab shiftround :
